there many times when you'll be building or running a no Js application that everything
will technically be working.
But it's just not working at the speed that it was on local host or the speed that it used
to.
Sometimes you introduced a new feature,
and it slows down other features.
And so there are many situations where you need to be able to diagnose where a performance
problem or speed problem is a curry.
In this lecture,
we're going to dive into how to use notes.
Performance Hooks module in order to time the execution of your code to be able to pinpoint
exactly where issues might be occurring.
To do this,
let's go ahead and require this Performance Oaks module.
I'm gonna call it Underscore performance,
and it's going to be require perf hooks with an underscore between them docked performance
.
Now all this performance data that we're going to add to one of our handlers isn't
something that just should be logged out all the time.
We want to log it conditionally only under certain node debug settings,
so let's go ahead and include utilities module.
Far Util equals require you till and then define debug which will use instead of Consul
logging as you till,
uh,
debug log.
But this time the magic phrase will be performance.
So the only way you'll see the console logging that we're doing related to tracking
performance will be if you start the application with node underscore,
debug equals performance.
Have been node index dot Js.
Let's go ahead and move down to where the session tokens are getting created.
So I'm gonna look for handlers.
Tokens post.
This is a fairly straightforward route.
It takes in payload needs to read the user associated with that payload kore EDA hashed
password to compare the password that has been sent from the user to the one that we have
on file.
Then it needs to create a token and persistent to disk.
Then we trying to users.
Now speed has not really been an issue with this route.
But let's say that it is,
and we're not sure why this is occurring.
We're gonna walk through how to augment this handler so that we can benchmark the code
execution at different points in time.
As this code goes through these different steps,
What that's going to look like is we're going to create things called performance marks,
and you can think of performance marks as points in time or pointing code execution that
have a specific label on them we're going to.
Then,
after we look put in,
all of our labels do performance,
measuring and performance measuring allows you to measure the code execution between
different marks that you have set up earlier.
Lastly,
we're going to log out the results of all those measurements.
So let's go ahead and add these performance marks to do so.
It's fairly straightforward.
We just want to call Underscore performance,
which is the name that we gave to this module dot mark and then give it a name.
So in this case,
this name is going to be entered function.
It's fine for these to be human readable.
In fact,
it gives you an advantage when you're creating your reports,
you don't have to remember what Point X y z ABC was you just remembered.
I want to measure from where the function was entered to some other point.
So that's the performance mark.
The next one we want to dio.
It's just below where the inputs have been validated and we will call.
This includes Validated.
Next.
Let's add a performance mark just before this user's data gets red.
So we're gonna call this performance mark Beginning,
user,
look up.
When this function calls back,
let's add a performance mark saying User,
look up.
Complete Now that's moved down to where the password hashing is happening because that
could be taking a significant amount of time.
That could be the thing that is slowing down our system.
So let's put a performance mark right before they have the password saying beginning,
password hashing and after the password hashing function returns saying Password hashing
complete Now Another thing that could be slowing things down is when we're creating this
random string.
And so let's put in a performance mark just before we do that,
saying creating data for the token and then we want to measure everything it's doing right
here.
So we're gonna put in our next performance mark just before we store the token saying,
beginning storing token and then another one after the data create function returns or
calls back,
saying storing token complete.
Now this point,
we don't really care about whether there is an air,
whether we're calling back a 200 or 500 to the user.
We just want to start measuring between these different points and then logging out all
those measurements.
So I want to first gather all the measurements and let's create six of them for this.
We're going to call performance.
Don't measure.
Then we need to pass it three things we need to pass it.
The name of this new measurement,
which could be something of our own creation,
and then the name of two marks that we want to measure the timing between.
So in his first case,
let's call this first measurement beginning to end,
and we're going to measure between this point entered function and this point storing token
complete.
So beginning to end entered,
function and story token complete.
Let's create another measurement that has to do with validating user input.
To figure that out,
we want to measure between where the user entered the function,
so entered function will still be the start point.
But the end point is going to be that the inputs have been validated,
so inputs validated.
Let's create another one called user Look up,
and this is going to measure the time it takes us to actually go fetch the user's data from
the file system.
So we're going to start it with beginning user.
Look up and we're going to end it with user.
Look up complete.
Remember that this performance mark and this performance mark that's created another
measurement for password hashing.
And we're going to have the start point B beginning password,
passion and the endpoint be password,
hash and complete.
That is this point and this point.
Next,
let's create a measurement for token data creation.
So we're actually going to measure between creating data for token and beginning storing
token.
You probably guess what our last special man is going to be.
It is going to be for token storing,
so we're going to measure between these last two points beginning,
storing token and storing token complete.
Now,
all of our measurements exist and they are still gathered up within this performance module
.
This is not going to automatically log anything to the consul at this point.
All we've done is create marks and then create measurements.
In order to get this data out of here,
we need to actually manually lock it out.
The way you do that the way you love out all the measurements.
His first create the measurements array by calling underscore performance.
Don't get entries by type,
and the type is measure.
And this is just this Intacs very particular to the performance module.
At this point.
After you call,
get entries by type measure you have an array of measurements,
so we want to call measurements for each and then cycle through each measurement for us
rather than log it out.
We're going to use this debug that we created up here.
We're actually going to put these measurements out yellow.
So I'm going to go to our server and a copy where we used covered writing before.
Pace that in here.
I'm gonna change the code from 36 to 33 which is gonna make it yellow.
And rather than having this string come out,
I want the string that comes out to be measurement dot name followed by a space and then
measurement duration.
So this is just going to log out the name of the measurement.
The duration diminishment went after another,
and rather than calling console dot log,
it's gonna be called as D book.
Okay,
now let's start this app up.
Remember,
we're not going to see any of these performance metrics getting logged if we don't start it
with the performance debug.
So we're going to call node debug equals performance,
and then node index dot Js Let's go over to post,
man.
I'm gonna send a request to a P I slash tokens post got a 200 back.
Look back here and we see or performance benchmarks locked out,
validating user input.
I took this long beginning to end that long.
User look up.
Password hashing token data creation,
token story.
And these are measured in milliseconds.
Since it's a debug log,
you have the name of the debug flag printed and in the process I d.
But really,
the information that we're looking for is what's coming out in yellow.
So,
as you can see,
using performance marks and performance measurements gives you a really robust way to
analyze exactly what is going on with your code.
The metrics when they come out of the measurement array won't necessarily be in the order
that you originally specified them.
We measured beginning to and first,
but here,
beginning to end It's second,
so you don't want to read this linearly.
We want to keep track of the meaning of each one of these things and look at them
separately.
In our case,
we can see that the thing that took the longest out of any given step besides beginning to
end is token story,
persisting that new token data to disk.
It took us 1.3 milliseconds,
whereas reading out the user data from the disc only took half a millisecond.
So if there is something that we're going to optimize here for performance,
if that 1.3 milliseconds was unacceptable to us than we would start optimizing the token
storing portion and start experimenting with other ways to store that data faster.
So now we can kill this F and move on to the next lecture.